All right, so
we're gonna go to validation,
we're gonna make a validation
library right quick.
[LAUGH] So I just kind of pummeled
you with all these monoids.
But you can see how it hints
at architecture, right?
We're able to start to say like,
our type of app is an async error handling
thing or it's a report like thing.
And in this case, we're gonna do
architecture around validation.
So we're gonna say validations
are a thing that combined.
Fundamentally, if I have a validation and
let's say, isPresent and
I do that check and
I wanna concat that with
another one like isEmail.
We take some objects and we'll take
say object.name and object.email.
What I should get is,
either the combined errors or
the original object, right, the choice.
So, we wanna build something that combines
a bunch of validations and presents
me with all their errors or a successful
object that got through the gauntlet.
So let's try to build this,
and I'm going to go slow, ask questions.
But, we're already gonna kind of start
with, what do we want to end up with?
And I think a nice API would be this.
We'll say validations is this
thing where we have name
isPresent, an email, isEmail, and so on.
So we'll say like we'll take it further.
We could say, well, I wanna concat
that with also isPresent, right?
We'll do that before the end.
But the idea is that we provide an object
key value and I want the validation to
correspond to the key and I wanna be
able to combine and compose validations.
Is everybody understand the framing of
the problem, what we are trying to do?
Any questions on that, yep?
>> This, if we were to take
it into different language,
would just be a different type of objects,
right?
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Okay.
>> It could just be named Paris,
I just wanna be able to provide,
this is the attribute I wanna
run this validation on.
And we wanna do something maybe
like validate validations.
[LAUGH] And
then we'll give it some object and
we hope to get our object back or
a bunch of errors.
All right, so let's go ahead and
write isPresent.
And, actually you know what, nevermind.
Let's go ahead and write this validate
first before we do anything else.
I like to start at the color, right?
So I'm gonna create, so
we already have this thing.
Let's simplify it for
now and we'll do this later.
But we say, in fact,
let's just start with isPresent on both.
So we have a very simple use case, we're
gonna start with the calling code and
kind of work our way back up.
So we have our object that has a name.
And, brian and an email, and
that would be brian@brian.com.
All right, great.
And we'll validate that.
So it will be our response and
we'll go ahead and
console.log whatever that response is.
All right, great.
So we have to go write validate,
so let's do that.
And validations is the specification
of key values, right?
So that'll be like our spec object,
I guess, I don't know.
I'm terrible at names,
just called our spec.
[LAUGH] And then we have an object.
We call it a record or whatever.
And then what we wanna do is
say object.keys on the spec.
So for each of these names, well,
what if we foldMap that, right?
We're gonna be combining everything, so
start that in a list and foldMap here.
We're fairly certain we're gonna foldMap
right now is why I'm doing this.
So bring in list.
List=require immutable-ext.
And what are we folding mapping them into?
Well, why don't we start with an either,
right,
either kind of already does this for us.
We don't have to write anything.
So let's go bring in
either from our types.
I do love this behavior,
it's like tells me exactly where
I am in the folder structure.
It's worth the pain.
So, okay, so
we have an either and we'll pull out
the left in the right from the either.
So we have those at our disposal.
Great, so we're gonna do is say we're
start with either of right as our empty.
And then we'll start with either
of the object as our initial
initial object, right, and
then our initial empty.
Because we wanna either return
the right of the object or
a left of a bunch of errors, and
then we're gonna take in each key.
Let's just kind of expand this out for
a second, get rid of the curlies,
don't worry.
[LAUGH] And then what we'll do here
is say, so if we call the spec key,
that will get this thing
out of that object, right?
The spec keys are the names and I can get
the value which is the validation out.
And we'll run the validation
on the object key, right?
Cool, and that should return us.
We could say something like,
well, if it's true,
we'll return a Right of this value, right?
So right of the object,
everybody's good, it worked.
Otherwise, we'll return you a left of hey,
let's just for
the screen sake,
we'll say key, boy, key bad.
[LAUGH] Here we go.
We're gonna start with that,
see where it ends up.
Okay, I'm gonna get rid of these.
So now we're returning an either and
you either can cats so things are good.
And I'll write isPresent, we'll say,
I don't know it takes an x and
it's just not X-ray.
Cool, life is good.
Let's see what happens.
If I run this, node lib validations,
of course I'm already in lib.
Why would I leave lib and come back?
It's already right here.
All right, cool.
But what happened here?
Why is it man?
[SOUND] Concat is not a function,
right must be holding something
that must be concatenate.
That's not we want.
We don't wanna concatenate objects
with objects wiht objects, right?
So we have a few decisions here to make,
we can actually
use another monoid that I didn't mention
called first, [LAUGH] or as a semigroup.
Because we can't make that monoid.
But we could say,
we'll use this object first,
that always just takes the first one.
And then my work.
I can go ahead and make that so
it always keep the first thing.
But I'll tell you right off the bat,
what's happening here is Left is just
gonna short circuit when it
hits the first validation.
And we don't want that.
We want it to collect the errors, right?
Even if we put an array here, And
we can actually demonstrate
this instead of using First,
I'll just put this in array
because an array concats.
In fact,
it's called the free monoids because you
can always slap something in there.
So, it does end up giving us a either and
if we stop doing this, just fold it out.
Give it, I'll write any functions.
We would get the console.log, sorry.
So we get a bunch of successes here.
If I remove one, say name bad.
[LAUGH] But if I remove both,
we won't get named bad and
email bad we just get the first one,
right?
And if I get the other
one will get email bad.